CDK: Overview, getting started, concepts (#504)
0xPolygon/polygon-docs: docs/cdk/concepts/blocks.md

> # Batches, Blocks, and Transactions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Batches, blocks, and transactions
```

> To understand how transactions are handled on L2s built with the CDK, there are three key concepts to understand:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are following concepts are key to understanding how transactions are handled on L2s built with the CDK:
```

> - **Transaction**: Signed instruction to perform an action on the blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Transaction: Signed instruction to perform an action on the blockchain.
```

- **Block**: A group of transactions and a hash of the previous block in the chain.

> - **Batch**: A group of many transactions from multiple blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Batch: A group of many transactions from multiple blocks.
```

> To best understand how these concepts relate to each other, on this page, we will follow a real transaction from the Polygon zkEVM to track how it first gets included in a block on the L2, then in a batch, and finally, a sequence that is sent to Ethereum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the figure below to best understand how these concepts relate to each other. We follow a real transaction from the Polygon zkEVM to track how it first gets included in a block on the L2, then a batch, and finally, a sequence sent to Ethereum.
```

![Batches, blocks, transactions](../../img/cdk/sequence-batch-block-transaction.png)

## Transaction

> A transaction is a cryptographically signed instruction from an account to update the state of the blockchain. Users can send transactions to L2 chains built with the CDK using the same tools and libraries they use to interact with Ethereum such as MetaMask.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A transaction is a cryptographically signed instruction from an account to update the state of the blockchain. Users can send transactions to CDK-built L2 chains using the same tools and libraries they use to interact with Ethereum such as MetaMask.
```

> Transactions are included in both blocks and batches. An example Polygon zkEVM transaction, [`0xdd`](https://zkevm.polygonscan.com/tx/0xdd3f79c24886310ddf868ad1d36aadc6a3b6495048f68aad765c658c42426ef8), performs a `Simple Swap` function call, and is included in block number [`12952601`](https://zkevm.polygonscan.com/block/12952601) on the L2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transactions are included in blocks, and these blocks fill batches. An example Polygon zkEVM transaction, [`0xdd`](https://zkevm.polygonscan.com/tx/0xdd3f79c24886310ddf868ad1d36aadc6a3b6495048f68aad765c658c42426ef8), performs a `Simple Swap` function call, and is included in block number [`12952601`](https://zkevm.polygonscan.com/block/12952601) on the L2.
```

![Transaction with Block Number](../../img/cdk/transaction-block.png)

## Block

> Blocks contain multiple transactions as well as the hash of the previous block in the chain to link blocks together. Following our example transaction from above, the `0xdd` transaction is included in block [`12952601`](https://zkevm.polygonscan.com/block/12952601), which contains [2 total transactions](https://zkevm.polygonscan.com/txs?block=12952601).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To link blocks together, blocks contain multiple transactions as well as the hash of the previous block in the chain. Following our example transaction from above, the `0xdd` transaction is included in block [`12952601`](https://zkevm.polygonscan.com/block/12952601), which contains [2 total transactions](https://zkevm.polygonscan.com/txs?block=12952601).
```

We can see this `0xdd` transaction is included in both a block and a batch, specifically, it is included in the block `12952601` and the batch `2041736`:

![Block and Batch](../../img/cdk/block-batch.png)

## Batch

Batches contain multiple transactions from multiple blocks. The two total transactions from our example block `12952601` are included in batch [`2041736`](https://zkevm.polygonscan.com/batch/2041736), which contains [10 total transactions](https://zkevm.polygonscan.com/txs?batch=2041736).

This means the batch `2041736` includes the two transactions from block `12952601` as well as eight transactions from other blocks.

> As there is a `Sequence Tx Hash` field associated with this batch, this means that this batch has been sent to Ethereum along with other batches in a single transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The presence of the `Sequence Tx Hash` field, associated with this batch, indicates that this batch has been sent to Ethereum along with other batches in a single transaction.
```

![Batch of transactions](../../img/cdk/batch-overview.png)

By inspecting the transactions in the batch, we can see:

> - Our original example transaction is included in this batch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Our original transaction example is included in this batch.
```

> - The batch contains many transactions from many different blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The batch contains many transactions from different blocks.
```

![Transaction found inside batch](../../img/cdk/transaction-in-batch.png)

If the L2 is a [rollup](./layer2s.md) (meaning it uses Ethereum for it&rsquo;s [data availability](https://docs.polygon.technology/cdk/glossary/#data-availability)), it sends an array of batches to Ethereum, by providing the array as an argument to the `sequenceBatches` function of a smart contract on Ethereum.

![Sequence Transaction](../../img/cdk/sequence-transaction.png)

> By inspecting the `Sequence Tx Hash` transaction, we can see the `sequenceBatches` function is called with the array of batches as an argument. One of these batches is the batch we have been following, `2041736`, which contains our original example transaction:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By inspecting the `Sequence Tx Hash` transaction, we can see that the `sequenceBatches` function is called with the array of batches as an argument. One of these batches is the batch we have been following, `2041736`, which contains our original transaction example:
```

![Last Batch Sequenced](../../img/cdk/last-batch-sequenced.png)

> ## Further Reading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Further reading
```
